Lavana Oriley: Hello there.
Lavana Oriley: Hello. Hi.
Hi.
Lavana Oriley: How you doing,
Michael Flores: I'm all right. How are you
Lavana Oriley: Good, thanks. Are you gonna be walking around or
Michael Flores: Yes, somewhat
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Is that fine. Okay. Yeah, as long as you're alone.
Michael Flores: Oh yeah, that's why. Yeah, that's why.
Lavana Oriley: You might just went out.
Michael Flores: Okay, I said, Yeah, that's why I'm walking around.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, so that you're out of the house and away from
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. Okay, perfect. Okay well we're starting our session at 607. This is
Lavana Oriley: Oh god assessment.
Lavana Oriley: And so the first question I have for you is what brings you into treatment was having what brings you into treatment. Now why why this particular time.
Michael Flores: Um, I would say, because I'm a lot more
Michael Flores: Serious and I felt I needed the help so
Michael Flores: I reached out for the help and it's time for me to stop. So that's why I reached out this time.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right. So tell me your story with substance abuse. When were you first exposed. How did it progress start at the beginning.
Michael Flores: Oh, I'm
Michael Flores: 30. Now let's see you back when I was
Michael Flores: A kid. I mean, I was exposed what Mike my first time using I just been
Michael Flores: Around
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, so like the first time he used to, let's say,
Michael Flores: Okay.
Lavana Oriley: For example, I was in high school. That's the first time I used. We then somebody introduced me to coke.
Michael Flores: That kind of thing. Yeah. Okay, so
Michael Flores: I was in seventh grade.
Michael Flores: And my older brother.
Michael Flores: He threw a ditching party at our house in well actually just a party, not a different party.
Lavana Oriley: Are you sure it wasn't during
Michael Flores: No, it wasn't because he was a weekend. They went out of town.
Michael Flores: Okay. And we had a party and there was alcohol on weed. So he got me high for the first time in drunk.
Michael Flores: And then after that, in eighth grade seven that was only time I didn't seventh and eighth grade and then freshman year, me and my friends, we would all smoke weed all the time.
Michael Flores: And then sophomore year.
Michael Flores: Little smoke weed two and then my junior year that's when we
Michael Flores: visited my friends girlfriends mom's
Michael Flores: medicine cabinet and we seem she had painkillers in there. So we went ahead and just take some for the fun of it.
Michael Flores: And we liked it. So we continue taking them and
Michael Flores: Kept taking them and then once I, my friend. He had some coke is like a you want to try this and we're like, sure, when I started doing that and then
Michael Flores: We would always just drink you drink, smoke leader use code and then my senior year.
Michael Flores: We tried we're introduced to ecstasy and we did like see a bunch of times. A lot of times, and then
Michael Flores: Ever since then. It was always weed alcohol exterior painkillers.
Lavana Oriley: So, would you just keep going back to like the the mothers medicine cabinet or you started buying the
Lavana Oriley: Painkillers on this. Oh, yeah.
Michael Flores: Well, then we just go back there and then once I turned the team actually started working for pharmacy. I was still delivery.
Lavana Oriley: Job. No.
Michael Flores: Yeah, from when I was eating till 23 and where were they would send back a bunch of drugs, they didn't use and I would go through the drugs, they didn't use. And I would just take whatever I wanted. Because the pharmacies wouldn't check in.
Michael Flores: anything in return.
Michael Flores: Until I got fired.
Michael Flores: I got fired. They took the street they changed the whole process around so
Lavana Oriley: How I get you.
Michael Flores: Honestly, I
Michael Flores: I, they wouldn't ever caught me I just
Michael Flores: I figured it was time I was tired and one of my buddies. That was a farm tech there she opened up and she's like a Michael one of the customers called and said, You sound like we so I think maybe the owners, they're going to drug test you.
Michael Flores: So, I mean, I could have gotten fake you think this and just turned in and clean when when I was a you know what I think, as you said, for me to stop.
Michael Flores: And I just turned him and dirty and there are lovely, lovely couple family owned business and they're really sad and they were really open to helping me out and
Michael Flores: They offering for help in this and that but
Michael Flores: I just turned him dirty because I guess I was just tired. I wanted to stop.
Michael Flores: And I turned into
Michael Flores: Turning the dirty. And ever since that time I trim and dirty. I did get clean. That's when I got clean for about eight months.
Michael Flores: Because I ended up going to school for my medical assistant certification and I was sober through that whole eight months.
Michael Flores: And then
Michael Flores: I got comfortable. I got a girlfriend towards the end.
Michael Flores: And I started dabbling into prescription pills in I'LL CALL AND CO also doing that again and then just became a problem again and I stopped for about three months sometime and there's years
Michael Flores: Because i got i was clean for three months and I got a girlfriend again.
Michael Flores: And I got comfortable and I was happy with myself. And one day I was just like, Hey, I'm going to drink. Just do it a couple times and
Lavana Oriley: Rice right
Michael Flores: Just turned into full blast again.
Michael Flores: And now I know alcohol is my trigger. So I mean, while trigger for cooking. I know I cannot have one drink one sip of uncle. So I think that first drink I want cocaine.
Michael Flores: And I don't and I don't feel for cocaine.
Michael Flores: For if I'm sober. If I'm I am pills or whatever. I don't feel for code, unless I drink so I quit. I quit drinking completely
Mm hmm.
Michael Flores: And
Michael Flores: I mean, I've been cleaned Mako for a pretty long time. The last time I drink was my one. My mom, my mom's fiancee services, he passed away.
Michael Flores: Early or no late January.
Michael Flores: And that's the last time I drink and I use code.
Michael Flores: And then my younger brother. He was 25 he passed away.
Michael Flores: When he was our
Michael Flores: September 24 on September 20 of 2019
Michael Flores: Oh yeah, that's when I drink and use code when I never drink again after that it was just that one day of his services.
Michael Flores: Mm hmm. So yeah, but I really don't. I mean it was just mainly all pink or is that I would say
Michael Flores: It wasn't drinking ARPU or weed.
Michael Flores: I don't like weeds too much anymore. Makes me too paranoid.
Michael Flores: Don't think what
Lavana Oriley: What was the worst possible time for you during that period.
Lavana Oriley: When did you get your rock bottom.
Michael Flores: Of using
Yes.
Michael Flores: I would say
Michael Flores: Honestly now because I mean I'm so far in debt. I mean, I have all these loans and I have a kid now. And she's seven months.
Michael Flores: I mean, yeah, I still have money to pay my bills I pay my rent and I mean I took out a bunch of payday loans and to got a title alone on my car.
Michael Flores: So,
Michael Flores: I would say now. Yeah, okay.
Okay.
Lavana Oriley: All right, so, um, do you also experienced any chronic pain.
Michael Flores: Yeah, but I figured it's from, you know, not using know painkillers.
Lavana Oriley: Mm hmm. Where's the pain come from a part of your body.
Michael Flores: My shoulders in my lower back in my well my whole my back and my shoulders.
Lavana Oriley: And were you in a accident or anything.
Michael Flores: Oh,
Michael Flores: There was one time. I mean, I hurt my shoulder playing softball. And I scores something and it wasn't my rotator cuff. I forgot what it was, but I didn't have the surgery or anything. I was just even then I was just prescribed Tramadol but I mean that's about it. No major action answer anything
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right.
Lavana Oriley: Um, any
Lavana Oriley: History on mental or have you ever gone to any substance abuse facility before I
Michael Flores: I did once I went to
Michael Flores: Why only did the detox part the seven day in patient. It was impatient.
Lavana Oriley: He wanted me to the treatment.
Michael Flores: I would have loved to but in the situation I had left it was honestly, no one had any idea was using
Michael Flores: And
Michael Flores: I just want to go for me. I have to go and she was pregnant, she's belly someone's pregnant and I felt so bad because we're living our own house. And I'm leaving their her alone. And if
Michael Flores: She knew nothing about this. And I'm like, Hey, I have to go and I wish I would have stayed but I saved for seven days and I left, I just didn't detox and then
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, and then how long after that seven day
Michael Flores: The day that day I got out. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, yeah, that's
Michael Flores: Honestly, honestly, I probably would not have used like I swear I wouldn't use, but the reason why I did because my girlfriend wanting to go to take my turn any pictures and I wasn't up for it, but
Michael Flores: I had to go. So that's why I use
Michael Flores: If I wouldn't have that to go take those pictures.
Michael Flores: I probably wouldn't have nice
Lavana Oriley: Okay.
Michael Flores: But I didn't want to say, hey, we're not going to go unless I
Michael Flores: Yeah, so I just did it in didn't tell anyone.
Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Um,
Lavana Oriley: Any history of self harm or suicide.
No.
Lavana Oriley: No.
Lavana Oriley: Have you had any diagnosis of bipolar or ADHD or anything.
Lavana Oriley: No. No. Okay. So growing up. What was your family like
Lavana Oriley: Adopted
Michael Flores: Know my parents and my family life. What was that like
Michael Flores: I both of my parents and they're both there for us.
Michael Flores: I would say it was a normal family life. I mean, my dad. Well, what makes skins. He was pretty strict like
Michael Flores: I would say like thinking about things around the house or doing yard work but say
Michael Flores: While talking back, you know, he would hit us with the bell.
Michael Flores: Went to normal things, you know,
Michael Flores: But I mean,
Michael Flores: As normal we had close. We had food we played sports all played all sports and it's pretty good. I mean, there's nothing I can complain about
Michael Flores: Okay, but they did. They did.
Michael Flores: They did divorce probably when I was
Michael Flores: 2523 maybe seven years ago.
Michael Flores: But
Michael Flores: Then they got they didn't really yeah it didn't really affect me because I can see that my mom wasn't happy.
Michael Flores: And then once she got the new fiance, she was happy and she treated her right
Michael Flores: I can see the way
Michael Flores: You know, so it didn't really affect me effective my younger brother is the one that passed and my youngest one
Lavana Oriley: Okay, so you have one sibling.
I have
Michael Flores: Two alive and one that passed.
Michael Flores: All boys. I have one older brother and one younger brother alive. One that passed. Okay.
Lavana Oriley: And did anything in your home life struggle with mental health issues or substance abuse.
Michael Flores: Yes, yeah.
Michael Flores: Well, my like my immediate family because my grandmother, my mother's mother. She's like a severe manic depressant.
Michael Flores: Impressed she's been like put off work for me because she's. Yeah, I've seen her like cut herself and try to overdose with pillows, but like my younger brother, the one that passed away. He was diagnosed with bipolar.
Michael Flores: He had he had drug abuse issues and my older brother has drug abuse issues.
Lavana Oriley: We did you spend a lot of time with your grandmother you exposed to her frequently
Michael Flores: I would say we rebuilt 70% away 30% with her.
Michael Flores: Okay. Not too much, but I mean, my great grandma or mom I spent more time with my great grandma, then my other grandma.
Michael Flores: Huh, yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Great grandma. Did she have any mental health issues.
Michael Flores: No, no.
Michael Flores: Not that I know.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. Did you notice any other addictive type behaviors in your household, such as gambling or working a lot or awareness of sexual material.
Michael Flores: Like from me, or from my, I have a gambling pro
Lavana Oriley: But I know you did. Oh.
Lavana Oriley: You did.
Michael Flores: But now it's two point. No, I know my gun, we now it's still a point where I hadn't stepped into a casino in life.
Michael Flores: And I only buy a scratch, right, I mean, it's been years since I went to school.
Michael Flores: And I don't mind, I'll buy a scratcher like every payday.
Michael Flores: Or sometimes what I have extra cash. I'll just buy a couple
Michael Flores: I mean that's under control and you mean it's nothing.
Michael Flores: Too far out there, but
Michael Flores: My parents. My dad, you know, I mean, he worked basically two jobs but
Michael Flores: He would, uh, I would say he would dream, but he was an alcoholic. I mean, my know
Michael Flores: My mom would wouldn't really be an alcoholic either now.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, no, no issues with any type of addiction in
Michael Flores: Oh, no.
Michael Flores: Okay besides my brothers know
Mm hmm.
Lavana Oriley: So what was school like for you. How, how far did you go
Michael Flores: I graduated I had some college I graduated high school
Michael Flores: Did some college
Lavana Oriley: And did you like school was that
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
Michael Flores: Yeah, I like to school. I wish I could go back now and Simon we shown and never use drugs in high school.
Michael Flores: But I mean, yeah, I think.
Lavana Oriley: You're still young, you still got a whole
Michael Flores: Oh yeah, no, I still kind of going back to school. I still check. I'm thinking about going back for an orange. Because I mean, now I work for us. But I work in home health department.
Michael Flores: Mean, I'm an MC coordinators, should I mean
Michael Flores: I planned on going back to school.
Lavana Oriley: Good. And have you still been working during all this stuff.
Michael Flores: Oh yeah, oh yeah, I was
Michael Flores: I wasn't functioning daddy. No one ever knew.
Michael Flores: I mean, no one, they would, they would know when I wasn't on him, because they'll be like, What's wrong with you today. Michael like you're not to see
Lavana Oriley: You
Lavana Oriley: Be like working laughs or seeming more lazy without the drugs.
Michael Flores: Yeah bolt and angry not is talking to you.
Lavana Oriley: Know not as friendly.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. Okay. Did you struggle with any learning disabilities.
Lavana Oriley: No. Okay. Were there any events that stood out to you, growing up either like in your neighborhood or with your family or friends.
Michael Flores: No.
No.
Lavana Oriley: Have you ever served in the military.
Michael Flores: No. Okay.
Lavana Oriley: So I know you do have some financial issues. Yeah. How much are you like in debt for
Michael Flores: What I recently paid off my tongue.
Michael Flores: Yeah, um,
Michael Flores: Well, I don't know, like all my medical bills that I just put aside and never P. Like if I read your resume. But, I mean, I would say anywhere from like
Michael Flores: Anywhere from like two to five $5,000 it's not too bad.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right.
Michael Flores: Well, I mean it's bad to me. But I mean,
Lavana Oriley: Yes. Yeah, yeah. I thought you're gonna say like 10,000. So yeah, no, that's not as bad.
Michael Flores: Yeah, no, no.
Lavana Oriley: What about legal issues legal issues. Do you have any more.
Lavana Oriley: Ins or fees or
Lavana Oriley: No, no, nothing with the court.
Lavana Oriley: No. Have you ever served in the military.
Know,
Lavana Oriley: And are you currently in a relationship.
Lavana Oriley: Yes. Okay.
Lavana Oriley: And you have the one child, the seven month old.
Michael Flores: Yeah, that one's mine. And then my girlfriend, she has a five year old, which is basically like mine, though we have time. So,
Michael Flores: And I've been with her for three years, a little over three years.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right. And what about her does she use any drugs or alcohol or any of that.
Michael Flores: No, she's complete opposite. She's straight engine.
Lavana Oriley: clean as a whistle huh
Yeah.
Michael Flores: I mean she'll have a glass of wine or a beer, maybe twice a year, but
Lavana Oriley: Uh huh. Yeah, and that's mind boggling to you right
Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: How can you do that.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, so do you. And then heard live together.
Lavana Oriley: Yes. Okay. Right. And did I miss anything. Was there any type of milestone growing up that you didn't you haven't talked about
Michael Flores: No, I mean I graduated, I mean, yeah, no, no key. I have a kid now.
Michael Flores: My baby.
Michael Flores: I mean, no.
Lavana Oriley: Is your mom still in life.
Yeah, actually.
Michael Flores: We left while we were renting a house. My girlfriend and I we left our house when my brother passed away because he was living with her.
Michael Flores: We left our house to go move in with her about what bills but we didn't want it to be there, you know, thinking on our own, or being alone. So we moved back in with her.
Lavana Oriley: Okay.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah and if she a good support person for you to she encouraged you and your recovery.
Michael Flores: Yes. Hundred percent
Lavana Oriley: That's awesome.
That's awesome.
Lavana Oriley: And do you are you are you have you been exposed to 12 step meetings.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
Michael Flores: Okay. Am I just never attended
Michael Flores: I wanted a few times but
Michael Flores: Not too often.
Okay.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, well, did you have any questions for me or any concerns about the program.
Michael Flores: Oh,
Michael Flores: No, none of them. No, no.
Lavana Oriley: Okay.
Lavana Oriley: All right well. Awesome. Well, I hope the program is helping you out.
Lavana Oriley: And yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, good.
Michael Flores: Yeah, definitely.
Lavana Oriley: Excellent. Okay, glad to hear that. Okay. Well, that's all I got. I asked you all the questions I need to ask you and
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, just
Lavana Oriley: Hang in there. Keep up the good work. And we'll see you at group.
Michael Flores: All right, well, thank you.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. You're welcome. Bye bye. Have a good
Michael Flores: Night you too.
One room.
I had my
Picture last
And final
Tables.
Well,
Lavana Oriley: Hello.
KayDee Lassle: Hi, how are you
Lavana Oriley: I'm good, thanks. How are you doing,
KayDee Lassle: It took me a minute to get in because they wanted to update my credit card and all that fun stuff. So it took me a minute.
Lavana Oriley: Okay.
KayDee Lassle: Sorry about that.
Lavana Oriley: No worries. No worries.
Lavana Oriley: Let's go.
Lavana Oriley: What's going on with you.
KayDee Lassle: Not much, not much. I just kind of just wanted to have one of these
Lavana Oriley: Because I
KayDee Lassle: Had one yet. And I felt like it was kind of needed because the only thing that I get to do is our group once a week.
KayDee Lassle: You know, and sometimes I miss it because of work which rare. It's rare, but sometimes I do have to miss it because I'm you know overtime or something. So I
Lavana Oriley: Just thought
KayDee Lassle: Was good because like lately I've just kind of been thinking about using more or not even like I'm gonna do it, but just thinking about it. So one would be beneficial for me right now.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, so my question is, do you have a strong support group around you.
KayDee Lassle: I do, I do. Yes. There's awesome I do, I do. There's also
KayDee Lassle: People that I don't hang out with really much anymore or associate with because of those reasons.
KayDee Lassle: But
KayDee Lassle: It's still it's always going to be around. And that's always going to be there. So whether I know someone's doing it or not, or so, you know, that type of thing. I've told
KayDee Lassle: Like my my addiction was pills. You know, it was narcotics. So I that I used to like get them from, you know, don't, don't message me don't write me. I don't want them or
KayDee Lassle: Sometimes I still get these random messages from people or people are talking about it or I know that somebody has them or just anything like that, you know, so that I think it's just with everything else going on all the sudden I just been thinking about it.
Lavana Oriley: Mm hmm.
KayDee Lassle: In the beginning, I didn't, I really didn't. I was like, totally fine with it and then all of a sudden within like the last month, I want to say, I just, it's been in the back of my mind a lot more
Lavana Oriley: So as far as the Suboxone goes. Do you feel that that is kind of curbing your urges and fires and
KayDee Lassle: I don't necessarily think that I want to take one or you know whatever it
Lavana Oriley: Is but I
KayDee Lassle: Am at a point where I would say if it wasn't for Suboxone right now I've probably my if I wasn't this. I've been clean since November 20 and I have not once relapsed
So,
KayDee Lassle: makes me really happy, you know,
Lavana Oriley: Yes, yes.
KayDee Lassle: So I'm trying. I think for the longest time I didn't look at it as like an addiction like mess or hair, you know, like all these other drugs like a lot of people in our group or addicted to meth or something different. So yeah, I it took me a long time to realize that my story is not different.
KayDee Lassle: From substance that I was using so
Lavana Oriley: Definitely
KayDee Lassle: I really mean recovery. I really am an addict and it took me a long, long time to actually realize that
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. Well, and I think that's pretty typical because most
KayDee Lassle: People think
Lavana Oriley: I don't have a problem. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: And that the people who are kind of pointing their finger at me saying you have a problem. It's their problem, you know, and you try to deflect it and it's you know it's typical to be in denial until you know. Finally, the drugs out of your system and then you realize
KayDee Lassle: And then seeing other people
KayDee Lassle: Or you know my other friends that were doing it and still do or
Lavana Oriley: And then of course you know it's
Lavana Oriley: It's impossible to hang. Oh, okay.
KayDee Lassle: Hey still there.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, I'm still here.
KayDee Lassle: I've never gotten a phone call little group that was here.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. So what yeah yeah
Lavana Oriley: So what happens is you just freeze. You just like that. Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: I agree on either. Yeah, I figured it out.
KayDee Lassle: I was like trying to this to show you that there were so
Lavana Oriley: Is there any way that you can like prevent phone calls from coming through on your phone while you're on zoom
KayDee Lassle: I'm gonna look at it. Yeah, I've never everybody usually knows but Wednesday. Everybody knows from six to seven.
Lavana Oriley: Don't call you.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. Right. Right. Exactly.
KayDee Lassle: So I think that's probably what happened, but I'll look into that.
Lavana Oriley: Definitely, yeah. I was just wondering about that, if that's
KayDee Lassle: Possible. I work out of Verizon store. So you think I would know that. Oh, you
Lavana Oriley: You got that smart. You can figure that out.
Lavana Oriley: For sure. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: So as far as going to meetings before all this coronal lockdown business. Did you and
Lavana Oriley: 12 step meetings.
KayDee Lassle: Know the like What's hard about
KayDee Lassle: My I guess situation is I do work eight to five so that limits a lot. However, there might be an I do live in a really small town, and I know that there's an NA group because I've heard of it. I used to, you know, I've known people that have gone before.
KayDee Lassle: Don't know if they offer any after five because when Marcia was in our group.
KayDee Lassle: She isn't always lives here to she's always telling me, Oh, come with me there at nine in the morning.
Lavana Oriley: I can't do that. No.
KayDee Lassle: Another thing too is with my job, everything that I'm doing with this is so confidential that if I were to go to Na, if I could, in the end, someone was, you know, happened to be a client or I ran into them in the office or
KayDee Lassle: They decided not to honor the confidentiality and told somebody like it should.
Lavana Oriley: Be an issue, it would be
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, it would
KayDee Lassle: Be a
KayDee Lassle: Big issue because my work has
KayDee Lassle: Not to me like directly, they don't they don't really know, but I've been told that
KayDee Lassle: Even they tell us this. I'm like our new trainings and all that, if you
KayDee Lassle: Have a problem, they call it or an addiction or whatever and you seek the help and everything they will send you you know privately and all this and they won't tell anyone. And you won't lose your job and you can come back to work.
KayDee Lassle: Like for me, myself, I definitely like I don't need to go anywhere. I don't need to go to rehab and personal
KayDee Lassle: I guess.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, I know, I understand, you'd rather not get out and I get it. It's a small town young
KayDee Lassle: Pianist last year when I was really bad into my addiction. I had a friend. She was one of my best friends and something happened and she hated me and she called my work.
KayDee Lassle: And she told them that I was doing pills and I was a drug addict and that if I call in sick. That means I'm withdrawing and I can't come to work.
Lavana Oriley: Oh my gosh, she was really mad at you.
KayDee Lassle: She said,
KayDee Lassle: Oh, you know, she shouldn't be able to to control all these people's lives if she's under the influence and just all these things she did so, of course, they got brought up and
KayDee Lassle: My supervisor called me, and she didn't believe it and of course I had to lie and tell her it wasn't taking pills. But the thing is,
KayDee Lassle: I was never that out of the network. I was never that, you know, high at work.
KayDee Lassle: But that whole thing just scared the living shit out of me.
KayDee Lassle: Oh yeah, when you do that.
KayDee Lassle: You know, something that also makes me worried about if I did go to a group, but just on this way. I don't even know if there is one.
KayDee Lassle: Outside of
KayDee Lassle: That offering after five o'clock.
Lavana Oriley: Well now, everything's online all the NA meetings meetings, everything's online.
KayDee Lassle: And I'm not opposed to doing an NA meeting online. I think that's something that I could you know really benefit from does it do you know like a local. Or if I could just join a random ones.
Lavana Oriley: I think you can join a meeting from anywhere in the in the United States. Actually, I don't think it has to be local.
KayDee Lassle: Few people in ours that live in Crescent City. And to be honest, I don't know if she knows this, but Shana and I, we weren't in place and I don't even know.
KayDee Lassle: Really, I don't even. She's the yeah she will. Okay, so we both right.
Lavana Oriley: I thought Shana was a delivery person.
KayDee Lassle: No shin. That's her name right Shana Harris Shanna
Lavana Oriley: Shanna Eric yes she deliver
Lavana Oriley: But she was a
KayDee Lassle: delivery person. He works for the county, but she's the custodian of all the county buildings.
KayDee Lassle: And so she comes to my work. Sometimes we don't work in the same building. Typically, but sometimes we do and like I've seen her at work after I've seen her in group.
KayDee Lassle: And we don't we don't say that. But it's just even that scares the shit out of me.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, I mean,
Lavana Oriley: Yeah yeah
KayDee Lassle: So, and then
Lavana Oriley: We record.
Lavana Oriley: All you tell she recognized you
KayDee Lassle: I'm not 100% sure I always say hi. I've always said hi to her prior
KayDee Lassle: But, you know, you know, I say, hi, how's your day because what it is. Honestly, too, is
KayDee Lassle: I don't want this to come off wrong but it almost makes me feel kind of bad, because what she's doing is taking my trash or what she's doing is you don't. I mean, and her job is just as much as important in mind, but I don't
Lavana Oriley: Ever
KayDee Lassle: Feel like I am like I'm in group to but love
KayDee Lassle: Reading
Lavana Oriley: Like right like you're superior to her.
KayDee Lassle: I don't
KayDee Lassle: Ever have to have it so I just say hi smile asked her how her day is and
KayDee Lassle: You know, so I don't know if she recognizes me
Lavana Oriley: Rio.
KayDee Lassle: I come from here, you know,
Lavana Oriley: Wow, okay.
KayDee Lassle: Pretty interesting.
KayDee Lassle: Lives in Crescent City so me Kyle Shana Marcia
KayDee Lassle: Um,
Lavana Oriley: I don't know. I think there's more there's other people that are doing
Lavana Oriley: Some of my other groups that are that live in Crescent City.
KayDee Lassle: So it's just like it gets a little scary.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, no, I, I
Lavana Oriley: Drinking two different drinks a yellow one and a green one.
You know,
KayDee Lassle: It's all the same.
Oh,
KayDee Lassle: No, the cup is green.
Lavana Oriley: Oh, OK. OK. No, yeah, you do have some constraints that you have to kind of stay in, but
Lavana Oriley: In your case, you know, I mean, you would definitely benefit from a sponsor you know somebody that you know, that is, you know, trustworthy and can offer you guidance and
KayDee Lassle: Being in that's the thing, too, is I've always heard, and I know sponsors, I
KayDee Lassle: Know people that have sponsors. But what exactly does a sponsor you
Lavana Oriley: Sponsor is like the trailblazer that has gone ahead before you on the 50 mile trail.
Lavana Oriley: Okay sponsor can guide you along the trail and and you know give you little hints about, okay, if your
Lavana Oriley: If your feet are are getting sore, do you put most skin on your feet, those are little hiking secrets. So you get little, little secrets of how to hang in there, little secrets of what to do if you're thinking about relapse.
Lavana Oriley: A sponsor somebody who has, you know, maybe two or three years under
Lavana Oriley: And they have that experience of going before you on the trail and they can help with guidance.
KayDee Lassle: Okay.
KayDee Lassle: That makes total sense.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. And so, you know, a lot of times addicts don't trust anybody. They're at a point where they can't trust anybody.
Lavana Oriley: And usually that sponsor is the first person they begin to trust again and if if it's a sponsor that you can relate to that you feel like you kind of maybe have the same story. It's kind of comforting to have somebody that first of all the sponsors saying I volunteered to help you.
Lavana Oriley: Item call me in the middle of the night. I am here to help you. And you know, part of the 12 STEP program is addicts help addicts and even the person that has maybe 2030 years sobriety. It still it's a win win it still helps them to help a newcomer
Lavana Oriley: Mm hmm. Anytime you're talking program, you know, everybody wins. So sponsors are people that volunteer to help the people who are new.
Lavana Oriley: You know, take somebody under their wing help them through the steps.
Lavana Oriley: A lot of sponsors, you know, the they'll kind of say, call me every day or, you know, check in with me at a certain time just, you know, whether you're having a good day or a bad day. And it's that constant contact and
Lavana Oriley: That's kind of the bridge that takes you over the gap. You know when you're, you're telling me you're thinking about, um,
Lavana Oriley: You know, should I or shouldn't I are these thoughts are in my head. What, how does a sponsor handle that situation. What do sponsors do in that you know type of situation so
Lavana Oriley: Really are very beneficial and I always recommend that you know, not only do you have to have a good strong support system.
Lavana Oriley: But one particular person that you that knows what you're going through has gone through it themselves. And they are the ones that you really end up depending leaning on because they kind of like I said they've they've gotten there first. So, there
Lavana Oriley: With the masters and the PhD and you're still kind of like in high school, sort of speak.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, and that's totally that makes sense and it totally like of course I had an idea that was but that makes it all kind of come together and make sense. And I'm just kind of wondering how
KayDee Lassle: How you go about
KayDee Lassle: Finding
KayDee Lassle: You know someone that is going to do that so
Lavana Oriley: I kill and especially
Lavana Oriley: Right now, when there's no kind of in person meeting and
KayDee Lassle: Just a private person or is it through a group like you know
Lavana Oriley: You find them in at 12 step groups. So, you know, any meeting, Amy. To me, addiction is addiction is addiction doesn't really hurt, you know, um, but I know a lot of
Lavana Oriley: You know, like the old timers in a they they don't like anybody in their meetings that you know are addicted to anything other than alcohol but
KayDee Lassle: It's crazy, because no matter what the substances.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, still addicted like
KayDee Lassle: Saying, in the beginning, is it took me a very long time to say, oh, I was addicted. Oh.
KayDee Lassle: I'm in recovery. I'm in a program like it took me a while to realize it wasn't just going to be, oh hey guess what I stopped taking pills.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, that's
KayDee Lassle: Not
Lavana Oriley: It does not enough. Yeah. A lot of people, they'll go through seven day detox and they're like, well, I'm done. Okay, but I'm out of here. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: It's here. This is where the addiction. Yes.
KayDee Lassle: And I see I'm starting to really, really, really see that and like understand it, you know.
KayDee Lassle: I haven't really been telling anyone I did tell a couple people that like, oh, you know, I kind of been thinking about
KayDee Lassle: You know pills lately, or, oh, this and that. But once I realized I was, you know, really thinking about it, I was like, okay, I need to. And I love group so much but you don't get that one on one.
Lavana Oriley: Yes, yes.
So,
KayDee Lassle: And then, yeah, so I was just kind of like, okay, I kind of really, I want to sit myself down and talk to myself, but also talk to you and just kind of, I guess, I don't know, because I'm still so I don't know.
KayDee Lassle: What even
Lavana Oriley: Well, no, and kudos to you to recognize that you needed to talk about this.
Lavana Oriley: Because the worst thing to do is to be having those thoughts and keeping it to yourself.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: It's called as a mental relapse. It starts the
Lavana Oriley: more you think about it, it kind of becomes an obsession.
Lavana Oriley: Exactly. If you don't talk about it. Your views.
Lavana Oriley: And it's, it's, it's like a balloon. It's like, you know, if you don't talk about it that balloon just going to keep blowing up and blowing up and then you know you're it's going to be devastation.
KayDee Lassle: Like for a second I thought about it, and I'm like, Okay.
KayDee Lassle: I caught myself thinking, what's the worst that's gonna happen. You're gonna, you know, you could take one and you know whatever blah, blah, blah. You already have your soapbox and you'll be fine. You don't, you know, you won't take any more. And then I thought about it. I'm like, I know me.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: I'm going to take one I'm going to love it.
Lavana Oriley: It's an ever another
Lavana Oriley: One another one. Right, right.
KayDee Lassle: And I have from November 20 to what almost April 20 that's almost six, six months clean
KayDee Lassle: I almost have six months, I've never made it six months.
Lavana Oriley: I've never right, awesome. Wow.
Lavana Oriley: Okay. So number one, you must be doing something right.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, so obviously you have built up some coping skills that have been working and, you know, kudos to you for putting those in place. So when we're dealing with the mind, it's, it's a matter of distraction.
Lavana Oriley: beer scene Cesar Milan. The dog whisperer.
KayDee Lassle: I knew
KayDee Lassle: Because I've seen some stuff like that.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, it's a it's a reality. He's and he's not on TV. Now, for some reason, but he was very popular years ago and people who had problematic dogs or dogs at bit
KayDee Lassle: Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, no, I know what you're talking about. I think
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right, so here's his biggest thing I love Cesar Millan I think he is a dog in his head.
KayDee Lassle: I think I know I think I do. Yeah, I know who you're talking about.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, so he's awesome. I really love them. So what he does is any dog that has bad habits like they just run around in circles or they bark at the front door. When the postman comes and then tear up all the letters, your dog.
Lavana Oriley: Yep. So all these bad behaviors. Here's how he changes. It's so frickin amazing so awesome. First of all, he distracts the dogs.
Lavana Oriley: So when they're, you know, engaging in this behavior, whether dark barking at the post man or running around in circles are biting somebody points their finger in their face. And he goes,
Lavana Oriley: And they stop what they're doing and they look up at him, and in that minute in that distraction. That's when he's able to teach them a new behavior.
Lavana Oriley: And it's all about distraction. So whether you are thinking about, okay, you know, I can just do that one. And the more you allow that thought to overcome your head. The more you give into it.
KayDee Lassle: Exactly. And that's what I felt like was going to happen.
Lavana Oriley: But I think you're stronger than you.
Lavana Oriley: May give yourself credit for and
KayDee Lassle: That's always been an issue. I've heard you know that's just me. I'm still figuring that out. I think
Lavana Oriley: Yeah. Um, so my, my whole thing is destruction isn't amazing miracle.
Lavana Oriley: Because when you're thinking about something that whether it's using or or just doom and gloom. Or, oh my god, what's happening in the world and you know all these
Lavana Oriley: Things it's like hopefully at this point in your recovery warning lights going to go off and say, hey, you're in dangerous territory right now fact yourself go out and take a walk, work on a puzzle.
Lavana Oriley: Write a letter.
Lavana Oriley: call somebody
Lavana Oriley: Like 1000 different things that you can do for distraction. And once you're distracted from that thought for about 10 or 15 minutes
Lavana Oriley: pretty much going to dissipate. But the more you give that thought fuel and continue to think about it, it becomes an obsession and like you're blowing bloom.
And man, so
KayDee Lassle: Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: And district. It's such a little thing. I'm telling you, think of Caesar Milan and, you know, you go to the dog and the dog stops whatever there. He never punish them. You never hits them. You never
Lavana Oriley: With behavior modification and it's it's pretty amazing. We can do that with our brains.
Lavana Oriley: We have to be able to realize
Lavana Oriley: Territory right now. So what do I need to do. It's not enough just to be yourself.
Lavana Oriley: Okay, Katie. You need to stop thinking like this.
Lavana Oriley: That telling yourself to stop like it's like saying don't look through this whole whatever you do, don't look through this, you're going to look through the whole
KayDee Lassle: Let's. Exactly, yes.
Lavana Oriley: So if distraction is step one, step two is engaged in that distraction go outside, take a walk, whatever watch a movie, read a book.
Lavana Oriley: Cut your nails. I don't care, something that takes your mind off of what you're thinking and
Lavana Oriley: That that thought will dissipate and each time you catch it kind of as you're doing it in the beginning stages, if you can catch it early.
Lavana Oriley: That will become a habit for you and it'll be your go to thing. Okay, I'm thinking about this. I need to go outside, or I need to take a look at. It's going to be
KayDee Lassle: I think that's exactly what I am hoping that it's what
KayDee Lassle: Now if that thought pops up or that I think just this conversation are visual and everything is I'm going to think okay
KayDee Lassle: You go do something else like you know you thought about that. But, you know, you can think about something else.
KayDee Lassle: Though do exactly exactly the way that you word it and the way that you put it
KayDee Lassle: Is very, it makes it sink in a lot
Lavana Oriley: Okay. All right. And yeah, don't get down on yourself and you know I'm a loser. And I'm thinking about this, you know. No, because this is very typical especially after you have a few months under your belt. You think you can do one
Lavana Oriley: Mm hmm. It's a recipe for disaster because that just clicks off that addiction in your brain. And it's like, oh,
KayDee Lassle: You're gonna start from square
Lavana Oriley: Yes, and
KayDee Lassle: Almost for the first time ever, six months in
Lavana Oriley: And that and that's amazing.
KayDee Lassle: Me.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, I've always I've had friends in the past, who are addicts. I've had family, you know, but
KayDee Lassle: They were bad, they were deep, they were homeless, they were in the swamps, you know, whatever.
KayDee Lassle: And I have a cousin right now. She literally is one of my best friends we grew up together and I lost her for a couple years to the street. She was homeless. She was not. It was really bad and she
KayDee Lassle: Finally, she got she went to rehab after she did her rehab or she sat at her jail time. They went to rehab the rehab. She's doing really good and she just got her nine gauge it
KayDee Lassle: And I was so happy for her and I was celebrating that with her and everyone was celebrating it and then
KayDee Lassle: Part of me kind of couldn't help but think that I don't get to do that and maybe it's not as a big deal because I'm not going to group. I don't have a 90 day chip. I don't have that too. But then again, the other party was like, you don't need the
KayDee Lassle: congratulatory is, you know,
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, the acclaim. Yeah, yeah.
KayDee Lassle: That you know her struggles were very much known in my family.
KayDee Lassle: They did my family horribly in mind, you know, mine was just kind of kept to myself if I struggled. I was struggling alone.
KayDee Lassle: Affected the entire family multiple
KayDee Lassle: So her. I think her recovery and her come back as a lot bigger.
KayDee Lassle: Mm hmm. I had to kind of tell myself. Mine is still relevant. I just don't need it to be so big.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, my family also knows that I'm planning everything, but I'm not getting 90 day chips. I'm not getting 60 day chips. I'm not going to, you know, all these things and
Lavana Oriley: Break when
KayDee Lassle: They asked, Well how's. How's it going, but with mine. It was so minimal and so many people didn't know for sure until
Lavana Oriley: We're able to keep it under wraps.
Lavana Oriley: That they were like, Oh my God, oh my God, I hope she doesn't relapse. I
KayDee Lassle: Hope you know this is amazing. Like to them. It's just like, you know, if it gets brought up. They're really proud, but to her. She really does deserve that light enough credit because she was in a really dark place. And I never went for, you know,
Lavana Oriley: Over
KayDee Lassle: Boy, I think that's another thing for me is part of me like wants to be able to be like Hey guys, I'm six months clean I'm missing that But mine is very secretive and it can't be publicized so I have a voice with my inner circle and just
Lavana Oriley: Exactly.
KayDee Lassle: And I have to remember that that's okay too. I can share it with group and everyone is so awesome. I can show
KayDee Lassle: My friend and my
KayDee Lassle: Parents and my family, you know. So that's one thing that I was realizing, too, is just because mine's different doesn't mean it's not valuable, but also, it doesn't have to be.
KayDee Lassle: Such a big thing.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, which is what if I did do a pill.
KayDee Lassle: It would just really waste the entire six months, I just
Lavana Oriley: Don't. Yeah. You'd have to just basically start all over. And you know before you even consider that it's like okay let me let me look where I am now.
Lavana Oriley: How far I came what it took for me to withdraw and where I am now and do I want to throw that all away.
Lavana Oriley: And the trust that I've built back up with my family and with my friends and even in myself, do I want to throw that all the way, just for. And you know what, you probably wouldn't even feel the height because you're on Suboxone
Lavana Oriley: Exactly, exactly. Total waste.
KayDee Lassle: Exactly and the part I kind of can't help but think it's all of its just still have it because i mean i know that i you know we're honest and stuff. And in my a big huge part of my addiction was I was sorting crushing them up and supporting them. So the habit of chasing the pill.
KayDee Lassle: Going Phil and getting it.
KayDee Lassle: Getting it home, breaking it up, put, you know, putting in a
Lavana Oriley: Ritual
Lavana Oriley: The ritual.
KayDee Lassle: It's the habit.
Lavana Oriley: And adding love the ritual even
Lavana Oriley: Just before you even like an addict, that's, you know, Jones and for heroin. The minute he calls his dealer and make that connection and he's on his way over. He's already hyped.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: Ready garden IS better
Lavana Oriley: It's all about
KayDee Lassle: Ritual cool too.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, it's so mental. It's amazing. Our minds are so
Powerful
Lavana Oriley: Mind over matter. It is a fact of keep reminding yourself.
Lavana Oriley: Recovery.
Lavana Oriley: I am in addiction anymore. I am in recovery.
KayDee Lassle: And I
Lavana Oriley: treat myself like I am in recovery as a healthy person.
Lavana Oriley: And, you know, the fact is that I can you know it's like if somebody told you, or you found out you had diabetes and you just continue to eat cookies and cakes and don't attend you know you're killing yourself.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, and the only person that's going to stop you as you
KayDee Lassle: As you yeah
Lavana Oriley: So you are in charge of the change that you make in yourself in your head in your life, you know, and you have to be your own first priority.
Lavana Oriley: And take care of yourself first. And when you get these thoughts and then you get this awareness, you either need to you know immediately call somebody distract yourself with something. And to me, knowledge is power.
Lavana Oriley: Know, the more powerful you feel and you know just even going online taking courses, whatever learning more about addiction.
KayDee Lassle: You know, one thing that's really crazy right now my best friend. She doesn't live here anymore but
KayDee Lassle: before I'd ever fallen into the she was, she went through a period of time where she was addicted to meth and she went to rehab. When we were 19
KayDee Lassle: I think 19 or so. And she's been clean ever since. But, um, she decided to take up addictions and she's going to college to be an addiction counselor.
KayDee Lassle: And she's always known about my struggle and everything and then
KayDee Lassle: About a year or two ago she some stuff happened she asked if she can come live with me for a little while. And I said, Yes, of course. Well, that's when she saw how bad it was.
KayDee Lassle: And now that she's in this addiction studies and she suddenly she's going to be an addiction counselor, because she's been through it. And she's like, you know, they say counselors that were addicts and you know in their life before make the best whatever it was, you know, but
KayDee Lassle: Well,
KayDee Lassle: She was just studying opiates and she was constantly like telling me all these things I and it's her because she's so like she wants to share it, and she's excited that she knows it. And she's like,
KayDee Lassle: You know, and it was, it was really interesting.
Lavana Oriley: It is interesting. It's pretty
Lavana Oriley: Fascinating. Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: Some of the things that she said to me, I was just like, whoa, it makes sense now.
KayDee Lassle: Looking at it was clean. And from this side and then studying the whole neurological mental right
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, there's a high brain yet want
Lavana Oriley: To just take
KayDee Lassle: A drug
It's yes
Lavana Oriley: Oh, it's pretty amazing. Yeah, you got your left brain.
Lavana Oriley: My brain and your low brain is just instant gratification. I want it now. Give it to me now. I can't wait. And that's
Lavana Oriley: Kind of the way the attics have the low brain in gear and once you're in recovery, you kind of get that high brain and gear and more thought becomes involved instead of
Lavana Oriley: I wanted, I get it. I'm using you start thinking about it a little more. You don't just immediately act on it.
Lavana Oriley: So that little moment of hesitation. That's your little sliver of recovery. And the more you resist giving into that that's giving you a bigger and bigger space to think about it, rather than immediately us as because now you're actually you're thinking about it.
Lavana Oriley: So yeah, ready made progress progress because normally the minute you think about it, you use
Lavana Oriley: You know already acknowledge what progress you've made the fact that you have entertained the idea, but you haven't acted on it.
Lavana Oriley: So that's fantastic. That means something's working in your brain is kicking into the hybrid and trying to lose. Use the low brain, which is when an addict is in you know
Lavana Oriley: Active addiction. That's all that works is the low very low brain doesn't care about anybody's feelings doesn't care about
Lavana Oriley: You know, being healthier eating right or anything. It's all about the drug all about the ritual all about, you know, thinking about calling the dealer you drive 100 miles to go pick up a drug, if that's what you had to do.
Lavana Oriley: And tell people put that determination that you had during your drug using time
Lavana Oriley: Because you guys are frickin determined
KayDee Lassle: Yep.
Lavana Oriley: That determination is there obviously because nothing stopping you from using drugs when you wanted to use
KayDee Lassle: Exactly. It's so crazy today here at like that.
Lavana Oriley: So you have that determination. It's just a matter of perspective, how am I going to turn that determination into a more positive.
Lavana Oriley: Tool. That's been a benefit me
Lavana Oriley: Acting on my thoughts.
KayDee Lassle: Right, exactly. I'm it was, I think, just for a minute was weird because in the beginning, I was like, Oh, I got this like I can do this. You know, so boxing's I'm not thinking about it at all.
KayDee Lassle: All of a sudden it crept up a little bit. Boom. Gone did think about it crept up a little bit. OK. And then all sudden, it was just like, right here. And I'm like, What the fuck, sorry.
KayDee Lassle: No wires are you all of a sudden peeking out why.
KayDee Lassle: So that's pretty typical that's pretty typical and you know it.
Lavana Oriley: Because really it's going to take a good six months to a year.
Lavana Oriley: Just our feelings.
KayDee Lassle: In your full tell me, Oh, you're just going from one addiction to another. Now you're off fills your on Suboxone
KayDee Lassle: Oh, when are you going to get off that. Oh, you're going to be on this forever. How you don't need you know just things like that and
KayDee Lassle: I really listened to you and and when you talk about why
KayDee Lassle: And again, my best friend. That is studying addiction. She used to tell me that Katie, you're going to get addicted this box it a lot. As soon as she started studying addiction. She called me the other day and said, I am so sorry.
KayDee Lassle: For making you feel bad about being a box and because she's all what I read, and what I learned. It's going to be at least a year or two inches. Oh, I am so sorry. I'm like, You know what, I appreciate that because
Lavana Oriley: See because people on the outside people outside of the addiction world. They don't understand harm reduction, they don't
Lavana Oriley: So,
Lavana Oriley: That's what, that's what they say you're taking, you know, taking one medication and replacing it with another, whether it's methadone vivid trawl Suboxone but the thing is
Lavana Oriley: You know, if somebody was diagnosed with analogy, and they're taking allergy pills. Is there anything wrong with that.
Lavana Oriley: No. So the point is if you are in discomfort and in order to improve your quality of life.
Lavana Oriley: Again harm reduction is like a bridge. It's not forever. It's a temporary thing. It's to help you get from one place to another, more securely without relapses
Lavana Oriley: And people that don't understand that that talk down about, you know, harm reduction, they don't get it. It's the same people that talk about, oh, god forbid you put condoms in the bathroom at a high school that's going to make everybody wants sex.
Lavana Oriley: Yep. I know it's preventative
KayDee Lassle: Way you just said that was so
KayDee Lassle: On point
Lavana Oriley: Because people
Lavana Oriley: Idiots. I hate when I work at a men's alcohol and drug rehab and I, that's what I do during the day.
Lavana Oriley: And a lot of those guys resent the guys who are on methadone Suboxone or vivid trawl because they're not on anything.
Lavana Oriley: And people who have done math. There is no, there's nothing math. The only thing is eating and sleeping. That's how you get off math, there's no there's no Suboxone for math. There's no vitriol there's no medical
KayDee Lassle: Makes sense, because that's what I was telling my best friend is you did math and you did it when we were teenagers, it's different.
Lavana Oriley: Yes, there's no there's no harm reduction medication for that.
Lavana Oriley: That's one. And the guys are angry about the guys that do get the harm reduction medication. And then on the other hand,
Lavana Oriley: The guys who are complaining that there is no harm reduction medication for math that's not fair. How can we do
KayDee Lassle: And that can't help but make you wonder that means they still want to be taking something they still altered.
Lavana Oriley: They still want to do battling something
Lavana Oriley: Well, and also people want to take the magic pill. I don't want to do this work. I don't want to do all this work this too much work. Just give me the pill. Let me get on with my life.
KayDee Lassle: There isn't one.
Lavana Oriley: That's not what we're
KayDee Lassle: Seeing fully understand why group is connected to this boxing program why one on ones are connected because if I
KayDee Lassle: Was just taking the box and every day and not talking about it or talking to
KayDee Lassle: fellow peers are you with
KayDee Lassle: Me there, I think.
KayDee Lassle: we've ever understand it.
Lavana Oriley: You know exactly, and that that is a requirement of each one of those harm reduction medications that it it goes hand in hand with counseling.
Lavana Oriley: They're not just pivotal methadone.
KayDee Lassle: Because then you're just going to get high off of it like
KayDee Lassle: Right.
KayDee Lassle: You know, whatever. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, so, you know, don't even feel like you ever even have to defend yourself for taking Suboxone just, you know,
Lavana Oriley: But I have. Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: But I'm sorry. You don't understand.
Lavana Oriley: Whatever because
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, oh what you know and you know eventually you're going to taper off of it when you feel strong enough.
KayDee Lassle: Is
Lavana Oriley: A forever thing.
KayDee Lassle: And that's my goal. I don't want to, you know, I don't want to be on it forever. But right now, that's what I need.
Lavana Oriley: Right, and that's what's helping you now. And if we like i i'm always I'm totally into mindfulness. I'm into today. Keep your head where your feet are if this is making your quality of life better, just like glasses, you know,
Lavana Oriley: I
Lavana Oriley: People to, you know, hey, I can sit here without glasses, but I have to squint every
KayDee Lassle: Day. Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: A little blurry.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, improve my quality of life. I think I'll wear glasses and that will help me.
Lavana Oriley: And, you know, anytime you can improve your quality of life. You do it and it doesn't matter what anybody says. A lot of people don't understand that harm reduction, just like I'm up in Seattle. They have a
Lavana Oriley: Place where attics that are you syringe users.
KayDee Lassle: If they're clean needles.
Lavana Oriley: They can come in and get clean needles. So
Lavana Oriley: You think people have to say about that.
KayDee Lassle: Well, you know what
KayDee Lassle: At least something that won't give them hepatitis right
Lavana Oriley: Hello, or
KayDee Lassle: AIDS.
Lavana Oriley: I know
KayDee Lassle: I get it, why not
Lavana Oriley: Yes, of course. Anything that's harm reduction that is
Lavana Oriley: You a less serious
KayDee Lassle: Condition or health problem.
Lavana Oriley: Yes, yes, yes. And to help you bridge from here to here.
Lavana Oriley: You know that if that's what you need to do, then that's what you need to do and don't ever feel like you have to justify that to anybody because you know it's helping you.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, definitely. I'm so glad that we got to do this or I got to do this for myself because I like I said, I haven't had one and i thought i was sailing through. I thought I didn't need one. And then within the last, you know, month or so I'm like, Okay, I think I need one of these
Lavana Oriley: Are
KayDee Lassle: Ancient and your lessons is exactly what I did need. So I really appreciate that because it's opened up a lot and it's made me think about a lot in China, how to handle the situation. Furthermore, from here.
Lavana Oriley: How good. Awesome.
KayDee Lassle: I'm so thank you so much for what you do.
Lavana Oriley: Just. Oh, you're welcome. You know, I love it, I love it so much. It's a second
KayDee Lassle: Career. Now that you love it and that were successful, too, is you you love what you do and no no I don't think
KayDee Lassle: Obviously, again, speak for everyone, but I do not feel judged. I don't feel scrutinized, I don't feel anything. I feel like I can be open with you and that's why I really wanted to do with you.
Lavana Oriley: Oh, good. I'm so glad that's off. Awesome. And, you know, pat yourself on the back. Number one, you sought help you know you you are looking out for your own well being.
Lavana Oriley: And those are all positive things and keep going in that direction. And just, you know, how can I make my life better. And I think you're definitely on the track. And what about your cousin, the one who's, you know, the in recovery. What, what about her first sponsor.
KayDee Lassle: I don't actually know she has one. So she is going through a lot of drug court and stuff to be out. She has new mandatory manned and I mean, like, seven days a week, mandatory na manned
KayDee Lassle: Up test mandatory zoom all of that. And she's doing really well. I just, I don't think she has a sponsor.
KayDee Lassle: And I don't know if it's just because she's constantly going to groups and meetings right now.
KayDee Lassle: For zoom. She's so funny when she came home from group when I, we were all over there for dinner. And she was like, oh my god groups, you know, it's all going to be on my now because of the crowd on. I don't know what I'm doing. I'm like, No, that's when I do it.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah yeah
KayDee Lassle: You know she yeah so she but she does group, at least at least three times a week. I think five
KayDee Lassle: And she's you know has to do like some p tests and all that, but she's doing really well. I just, I don't think that she has a sponsor. I'm not quite sure. But I don't think so.
Lavana Oriley: Um, so, does she live in your same town.
Lavana Oriley: Oh yeah, well, maybe you can go to a meeting with her online together.
KayDee Lassle: I thought about that because
KayDee Lassle: Her and I have talked about it, her group. So usually, you know, different days of mine and sometimes we're over there together where I'm at her house, whatever she's saying with her dad, my uncle.
KayDee Lassle: And we do a lot of family dinners.
KayDee Lassle: I mean coronavirus is kind of hindering seen that a little bit.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah yeah
KayDee Lassle: We do do a lot, and I've been over there multiple times where she's on zoom and she has said, Hey, do you want to join me
Lavana Oriley: That's a great idea that
KayDee Lassle: Fear kicks in of who's in it. Are they in Crescent City. Who's in your group.
KayDee Lassle: But about one of her groups was like global are not global but you know what I mean.
Lavana Oriley: And national
KayDee Lassle: So talking to her about it too. I mean, she had it so much harder to me and she went through a shit time and but she always does say calm down for math is easier, but the mental you know the addiction is still there.
KayDee Lassle: And I we've always been close we grew up as best cousins, whatever you want to call it. But now we have a whole new thing to connect on and build on.
KayDee Lassle: Uh huh. But, and I really don't want this to sound bad part of me small part can't help but think the only reason she's so successful and clean right now is because she has to be
KayDee Lassle: He's on probation. She's in drug court, she's on pizza. She wears a drug patch, like all these things, you know. Yeah.
KayDee Lassle: Yeah, but I know for her. She wants it so much, and she
KayDee Lassle: Do so good right now. I just when all of this is over, like all her parole or probation, whatever. I just hope that she doesn't slip back into, you know,
Lavana Oriley: Some people need that very, very severe like you know
Lavana Oriley: Tell people is go to 90 meetings in 90 days.
KayDee Lassle: Literally so happy that she's in it every single day and she has to wear a drug patch and take it off and get it tested every week and then put a new one on and he has three times a week.
KayDee Lassle: Wow. Whoa, yeah. She was in pretty heavy. So all the things that she's doing
Lavana Oriley: Mm hmm.
KayDee Lassle: Are keeping her 100% clean. He'll be happy and I just hope one day when they come off. She's still stays that way.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, yeah. And if you can join her one of those like global or national meetings where it's not our own. But it's in, you know, just kind of sit over to the side and listen. You don't even have to put your face in front of the camera.
KayDee Lassle: About, you know, kind of trying to find my own to maybe find just like the internet wine or something.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah.
Lavana Oriley: You know, and anything that's going to help support a positive attitude and a healthy recovery. Do it. Just do it.
Lavana Oriley: Yeah, don't hesitate, because that's everything in your toolbox. And when you think about what are all these what are all the things I can use to help me.
Lavana Oriley: Focus on you know keeping my recovery intact. You get all these things out of your toolbox that you learn along the way. And hopefully you have some things in your toolbox. Now, and you can kind of turn to that but
KayDee Lassle: Like I do
Lavana Oriley: Good, good, good. You're doing great and I pat yourself on the back, give yourself credit and you're doing great.
KayDee Lassle: Thank you. It means a lot. And it makes you know makes it everything kind of worth it to to hear that. So I really appreciate that. Thank you.
Lavana Oriley: Oh, you're welcome. Okay, Katie. Well, don't hesitate to let us know if you need one on one.
KayDee Lassle: Okay.
Lavana Oriley: We're happy to do that. And yeah, keep coming to groups and sharing your experience strength and hope that's
Lavana Oriley: The best thing you can possibly do.
KayDee Lassle: Okay, thank you so much.
Lavana Oriley: My right
KayDee Lassle: You're welcome. Take care.
KayDee Lassle: Everyone. Thank you. Right. Who was that
Lavana Oriley: Our meeting ended at
Lavana Oriley: 755